We now have a piece of state on our app component called this dot state DOT logged in to decide whether
or not the user is currently logged in.
So just to be clear one last time the on off state change function there you know the federal function
right here can be called at any point in time inside of our application.
So if the user logs in and backs out and logs out 10 times in a row our state is just going to keep
on flipping back and forth.
We will now use the same methodology as we used in the log for him to decide whether or not we want
to show the log in form or something that says like you know hey you're currently signed in or whatever
one might want to show.
So we'll create a new helper function that will decide whether or not to show the log in form or a button
that allows the user to sign out.
So first off make the helper function which I'm going to call Brender content and inside of here will
look at this state DOT logged in and if the user is currently logged in then I will return a button
tag that just says something like you know sign out.
Actually let's keep our terminology consistent and say log out.
Now I haven't imported the button tag just yet.
We'll do that in just a second.
If the user is not logged in we will return a different piece of GSX will return the log and form itself.
Finally we will replace the log form down here with the call to render content.
So say this dot Rander content.
So now at any given time if the user is logged in.
Show a button to log out.
Otherwise allow them to sign in.
That's it.
That's all we want to do.
So now I think the lesson we have to do is make sure that we import that button component.
So scroll back up to the top.
We've already got an import statement from the common folder right here.
So I will also import our button component as well.
Now of course the component doesn't really do anything just yet like you know it's not like you know
soldering thing.
But I think we're in a good enough spot to do a little bit of a test in the simulator.
So in a pop open the simulator would refresh.
Now I'm still logged in from our previous session.
This is like the magic of firebase in practice right here I was signed in already to our application.
So as soon as I authenticate the app are on all state change callback kicks in it flips.
Logged into true and lo and behold all of a sudden we get the log out button on the screen.
So this is exactly what I want to have happen here.
So I want to do something else here I want to just refresh the sealer really quick and you'll notice
however that when I first refresh it we see the log in form on the screen for just you know half of
a second there as firebase syncs up with the remote data store and decides whether or not we are still
signed in.
So this on All-State change here it's not instantaneous it actually takes firebase a moment to figure
out whether or not our user is currently signed in.
And that's why we see that log in form appear on the screen for half a second.
So obviously that is not ideal behavior.
So I think that it would be really nice to show a spinner on the screen all the way until we know whether
or not the user for sure sign in or signed out.
Now there's just one small issue here.
Just one small and a nasty issue at present.
We've got a logged in flag right and logged in is either flipping between true or false and we're defaulting
are logged in state to be false so by default we're assuming Hey you're not logged in and if you're
not logged in boom see the logon form.
So in fact we really need three states here.
We need a state in which we don't know if you're logged in a state in which you're definitely not logged
in and ascertain which Yeah you're definitely logged in.
So three different states to handle this.
I'm going to suggest that we flip the initial value of logged in to no instead of false.
And so Nolla right here represents Hey we just I don't know if you're logged in.
I've got no idea.
I don't want to say you're not.
You know I don't want to say false.
Like for sure you're not.
But I also want to say are true obviously.
So instead we'll place Nolan here and no kind of has the connotation of the idea of I just don't know
what this should be like.
I don't know if you're signed in.
So now we can update our render content method right here to handle this additional case of what the
value of this dot state law is.
So now we need to handle the case in which the Start states are logged in is true false or no.
OK so we've got three different cases now to handle this.
I think that using a bunch of if else statements would be a little bit messy.
So instead I'm going refactor this to use a switch statement.
So I'm going to add a little space in here and we will switch over the value of this state logged in
now inside of a year we'll have a couple different cases of a case in which it is true.
Like yeah you're like in love a case in which falls which is.
No you're definitely not logged in and a default case which is really going to handle when this state
logged in is nil.
So that's the purpose of default.
It's now inside of here.
I'm going to just copy paste up the log and form tag.
So I'm going to cut this thing out.
And if the user is not logged in so false I want to show the log in for them if the user is logged in.
Then I want to show my button tag
that allows them to log out.
Now I can delete this statement
and then finally in the default case I want to show the user a spinner.
It's also a spinner instead.
And I probably want this to be a nice big spinner or something to show it with the size of large.
We also need to make sure that we import the spinner.
So I'm going to make sure that import spinner from our common directory.
So inside of here we'll get our spinner.
All right.
So I think we're in a great spot now we're handling three different cases of our application the case
in which you're live in case in which you're logged out and the case in which we just don't know yet.
So let's now test this out inside the simulator or refresh.
And I get that spinner on the screen for just half a second which is a much nicer experience than showing
the user that log in for them right away.
You'll notice that you know to be kind of nice if this spinner was a little bit more centered on the
screen overall I'm going to allow that to be kind of a self-directed exercise.
So if you want you could wrap the spinner right here with a view tag and use that view tag to center
it on the screen overall as opposed to just letting it kind of butt up against the top here.
OK.
So this looks fantastic I think we're making great progress.
The last thing we have to do for authentication is be able to log the user out by clicking the button
right here.
So let's take care of that implementation in the next section.